Now for that token I mentioned that it would be a string in the end which would generate which is generated
with the help of a certain private key and a certain algorithm.
And then we can encode data into that string so we can for example encode the user I.D. that belongs
to the token into that token.
You won't be able to read it directly in the token but you can then decode the token to find out which
data is in there for example.
So to create such a token will install and no third party package and this package is called Jason Webb.
Token one word and simply install it with npm install dash dash save.
This is a package which allows us to generate such tokens with that private key and therefore here in
users controller where I want to generate such token I will import it and store it in a JWT constant
and imported with require.
Jason Webb Token Of course you can name these constants here whatever you want.
Let's restart to serve with NPM start thereafter.
And now we can adjust our code and I want to generate such a token bow for sign up because of a user
signed up.
I know that this is a valid user because well we just created the user so we can also create a token
there.
And of course I also when I generate a token for log in so let's start with sign up here.
We're storing a user in the database so there after we know this is a valid user.
And now we can generate such a token and it's there after actually the token and maybe some user data
which I want to return instead of the entire user object because not all user data is directly required
in the front end here but that of course depends on the application your building and your exact requirements.
So here I will add a token variable and then to create it we can call JWT.
So this package I just added sign the sign method here returns a string in the end.
And this string will be the token so we can actually say token equals JWT sign and then it takes some
arguments some inputs.
The first argument here is the payload of the token sort of data you want to encode into the token.
This can be a string an object or a buffer.
Now here I will encode an object and the entire serialization and encoding logic will be handled by
this package.
So here we have a vanilla javascript object and there are 1 to encode the user I.D. into the token so
that we know which user does token belongs to and for that I will use my created user thought I.D. I.D.
is a getter provided by Mongo is on average created user Document object we're working with and this
is the I.D. Mom would you be will have generated for this user and maybe we also want to encode the
email address but it's up to you which data you want to store here.
I just chose some examples.
So here I'm encoding the user I.D. which is very important in my case and to email into the token the
next argument here is this private key.
So this simply is a string which only the server knows so which you never ever share with any client.
It's only in your server side code and here I will named as super secret
don't share.
And of course you can enter any string you want here the lost argument is optional and here you can
configure it a token with a javascript object where you can set up certain options.
For example you can set a token expiration with expires in and this accepts terms like one hour like
this.
You can check out the official docs of Jason web token to find all information about all config options
here and about all the time strings you can pass to expires in now letting the token expire is actually
a really recommended practice because the token we sent back can't be faked or edited by the client
because whenever you would do so since you don't know the private key you would generate a invalid token.
So even if you decoded on the front end and you tweak the user I.D. and try to recreate the token you
won't be able to replicate this token because you don't know the private key on the client.
So that is how we secured the token but if you steal this exact token we're generating here.
If someone gets access to your token then this token is enough to fake that.
This person is you because this token is accepted by the server as your identity.
So to say it's accepted as your I am logged in proof now it's stealing that token on the client is a
different thing it's not that easy and I will talk about this when we actually store it on the client.
So it's not that easy to steal that token still as an extra security mechanism it is recommended that
you let this token expire.
For example in an hour so that even if it would be stolen there only is a very short time duration during
which attackers could do something with it.
Now this token creation all that could fail so I will wrap it with try catch here.
It doesn't return a promise but it still could fail.
So here try catch.
And if it does fail I will just return my signing up failed.
Error here if it does not fail.
However we do have a token and therefore now I can return this as part of the data I want to send back.
Now the data I want to send back totally is up to you here for this users sign up process.
I will send back the I.D. of the user that was created which I get from created user I.D. the email
maybe which is created user dot email and very important.
This token These are the three pieces of data I want to return here.
But again it's typically up to you what you want to return to your front and in the application your
ability.
That was the sign up process.
Let's repeat this for the log in and of course feel free to pass the video at this point and try this
on your own.
After a short pause which I give you to pause the video we'll do it together.
So where are you successful.
Of course it shouldn't be too hard.
We can't just copy this token creation code here and go to the log in process here.
And once we validated that we do have a user for this email address and once we also validate that that
the password is correct.
So right before we send the response we want to generate this token now important.
Use the same private key as above.
If you use a different one you will generate different tokens and therefore when the user when the client
later sends a token with a request you wouldn't be able to validate them correctly on the server.
And here they should be logging in I guess.
So make sure that you use the same key here in log in as you did in sign up.
I will also use the same expiration date of course.
In general I want to have the same configuration for my token.
Just the data I encode is generally the same but here in log in I don't have to created a user.
Instead we have the existing user here so I get my I.D. which I want to encode from existing user I.D.
and to email from existing user email.
Other than that it's the same logic just the error message.
Changes to logging in failed.
And then here as a response I don't return a message I don't return to user object.
Instead I return a user I.D. which I get from existing user I.D. maybe also the email which we get from
existing user email and very important of course the token which we just generated.
And with that data the client.
So in our case do you react the application will be able to use and stored is token and attach it to
future requests to roots on the back end that require authentication and that is actually the next step
we are generating this token but thus far it's totally useless thus far on the client.
We could store it or we could not store it because besides this token generation we haven't added any
logic to the back backend that would protect certain routes from an authenticated access.
Right now you still can send any request to any route here.
We're not blocking this.
So as a next if we want to make sure that certain routes like creating a new place or patching or deleting
it are only accessible if the request has a token attached to it and this token also is validated by
the server and we can confirm that it was created with this private key.
So as the next step will implement as route protection on the back end.